hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain continuous time exponential and sinusoidal signals
exponential and sinusoidal signals are the basic building blocks of many other signals
the continuous time complex exponential signal has the given form where the capital c and alpha are in general complex numbers
if c and alpha are real numbers the signal is called real exponential signal
if alpha is positive then the signal is a growing exponential signal
if alpha is negative then the signal is a decaying exponential signal
if alpha is purely imaginary the signal is said to be complex exponential
an important property of this signal is that it is periodic
a signal is periodic if it is unchanged by a time shift of t
so if the last term here is equal to one than the signal is periodic
if omega zero is zero then the signal is constant and it is periodic for any value of omega zero
if omega zero is not equal to zero the fundamental period is two pie over absolute value of omega zero
a signal closely related to the periodic complex exponential signal is the sinusoidal signal
here a is the amplitude omega zero is the frequency and phi is the phase of the sinusoidal signal
the unit of omega zero is radians per second and the unit of the phase is radians
a sinusoidal signal is shown graphically on the right hand side
here t zero is the fundamental period and it is equals to two pie over omega zero
this slide shows the formulation used to compute the energy of a continuous time signal over an infinite time interval
and the time averaged power of a continuous time signal over an infinite time interval
for discrete time signals continuous time representation of the signal is replaced with discrete time representation
and the integral is replaced with summation in order to compute energy and power
for a periodic complex exponential signal
the energy of the signal in one period is obtained as t zero
since there are an infinite number of periods the total energy of that signal will be infinite
the average power of the signal in one period is one
and averaging the power over multiple periods also gives one
therefore periodic complex exponential signal is an example of signals with infinite total energy and finite average power
the same also holds for the sinusoidal signal
so far we have examined exponential signals with real exponential and periodic complex exponential
more generally we can define a complex exponential signal where both captial c and alpha are complex numbers
if we define c in polar form and alpha in rectangular form
we can define the complex exponential signal as given in the red box
we can write down this signal as the complex summation of two sinusoidal signals as given below using euler's relation
in a complex exponential signal
if r equals zero then the real and imaginary parts of the signal are sinusoidal
and depending on the sign of r
the sinusoidal signals are multiplied either by a growing exponential or a deco  decaying exponential
growing or the decaying exponential determines the envelope of the sinusoidal signal
in this video I have explained continuous time exponential and sinusoidal signals
let me know if you have any questions